# VoterZmate

## **OBJECTIVE:**

To make Online Voting in a democratic nation a reality and work towards making it a successful experience by eliminating the shortcomings of traditional offline polling.


## **PROBLEMS CONSIDERED:**

Some of the problems that are faced by people in physical voting are:

- People either do not get a chance to cast their vote as their registered polling location differs from their current living location or they do not go to the polling center at all.
- Individuals might change the program installed in the EVM and can tamper with the electoral results.
- Rigging is the most common problem faced by the election commission of India in which an individual can cast more than one vote in a different constituency.


## **PROPOSED SOLUTION:**

Our team has decided to design and develop an android application to help conduct polling by means of online services to ensure hassle free online voting!
 
In order to ensure security, we have taken measures such as 2-step-verification of the user with signing in being the first step and biometric scanning the second. Biometric scanning shall be implemented using image encryption algorithms with the help of Java libraries.
 
With the use of this app the admin shall be in full control of conducting the elections as and when required as well as displaying the results of the elections. Also, the results of the elections shall be stored safely in a secure database and hence reduces the risk of the elections getting rigged. We have also ensured that each user votes only once during the election and that too within a specified time as decided by the admin. After the elections start, the remaining time shall be displayed to the user in the app at every instant while the elections are ongoing.
 
The user shall be able to edit his/her details in the “My Profile” section through the usage of swipe gestures which shall be reflected only upon authenticating a user via an OTP sent to their registered Mobile Number. (as generated by the Feature Generator for our team)


## **NOVELTY:**

- One of a kind app that facilitates online voting, implements it and emphasizes on the need of modernization in conducting elections in a democratic manner.
- If implemented end to end, it can become a means of voting worldwide. 
- Reduces the time, efforts and the manpower required to conduct physical elections, for the election commission body. Also provides convenience of voting at any desired location, anywhere and anytime, to the user.
- Swipe gestures incorporated to simplify the process of editing details for the user. 
- Detailed bar graphs displaying the percentage of votes received by each candidate after the conduction of the elections, in the “Election Results” section of the app, thus enhancing real-time voting experience.   

## **TECH STACK:**

- Java
- XML
- Firebase
- Android Studio
- UI/UX user interface - Figma


## **FUTURE IMPLEMENTATION:**

- In the future, we can perform KYC verification for the newly registering users.
- We’ll also be developing an admin app to carry out the conduction of elections and the displaying of results as and when required in a more efficient manner rather than controlling it directly from the Database.
- Upon adequate initial support from users, iOS and cross-platform versions of the app can be released in addition to a website which shall further contribute to the easy outreach of our service.

## **USAGE:**

- First of all clone this repository using following command:

```git clone https://github.com/thisisadi/project_VoterZmate.git```

or download https://github.com/thisisadi/project_VoterZmate this repository.


- Now open the cloned repository in Android Studio and wait for the gradle build to finish and resources to be downloaded as well as indexing of files to be completed. 


- Now build the project and run it on an emulator or your own device.


### **VIDEO REPRESENTATION OF THE APP:**
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1-xve6zrIU7J-40I9piKjSJMi849VHBCy/view?usp=sharing

### **FIGMA UI LINK:**
https://www.figma.com/file/Gj4rMy5L5fSH4t9aeiKPXh/VoterZmate?node-id=0%3A1

### **FIGMA PROTOTYPE LINK:**
https://www.figma.com/proto/Gj4rMy5L5fSH4t9aeiKPXh/VoterZmate?node-id=99%3A539&scaling=scale-down&page-id=0%3A1&starting-point-node-id=99%3A539

### **CANVA PRESENTATION:**
https://www.canva.com/design/DAEw274N06w/nq6p5IeqRqCpc9b6zgJnMg/view?utm_content=DAEw274N06w&utm_campaign=designshare&utm_medium=link&utm_source=viewer
